Ladies and gentlemen, I have endeavour to do this campaign to try to tell you what I have
done in the 15 and a half years that I have been in the House of Representatives or in
the United States Senate.
What I think the problems of the future are and what I expect to do if I'm continued
on for a second term in the United States Senate.
I have hanging on my wall in my office a famous saying from Abraham Lincoln.
That is that if he spent all of his time answering the charges and misrepresentations of his
bitter critics, he would never have any time for public business.
But in America today and in Tennessee during this campaign, we see a trend of just making
misrepresentations, unwarranted charges, falsehoods, innuendos to try to put something into
someone's record that is not fair or just outright misrepresentations.
That seems to be the modern way in some places of running for office and I'm sorry that in
this senatorial campaign one of my opponents has resorted to that kind of tactics.
So that I feel on this occasion since I've been in Congress for 15 and a half years,
many people may not remember or have forgotten, many new people have come into Tennessee
and I'm not familiar with the fact that practically all of these matters have been gone into
in my various campaigns for the Congress of the United States or back in 1948 when I was
elected to the United States Senate.
So very briefly I'm going to tell the facts about each one of these matters that I can
remember.
We have tried to keep up with them as best we could.
Of course one of my opponents shifts his ground about every day, abandoned some set of
charges and goes on to a new set of charges when the explanation of the first ones catch
out with him.
That's a trend we have in American politics today.
But if I do not discuss any charges or representations or misrepresentations that you may have
heard about, I would be glad if you would write me or write our office at the Maxwell House
at Nashville and the facts will be given to you just as they are.
We have here 10 charges that have been made and the truth about them showing to be them
to be actual misrepresentations.
And maybe others we will try to keep up with them and supply the information.
I want to go back to the beginning of my career in Congress and during this time I have cast
thousands and thousands of votes on all kinds of controversial issues.
Undoubtedly I have made many mistakes but I have always voted my convictions after getting
the facts as best I could and I have used my best judgment in trying to vote for what
I thought was for the welfare of the people of Tennessee and of the whole United States.
The first criticism that one of my opponents has been making is that he says that I am
not a friend of the veterans on the grounds that I voted against a bill for Spanish and
more war veterans back in 1940.
Well now I want to say in the first place that I have supported all of the great measures
for the welfare of veterans that have been passed during the last 15 and a half years.
Co-sponsoring such bills as a GI bill of rights, the Vocational Rehabilitation Educational
Program filing on my own, the little RFC for veterans being a co-sponsor of a bill to
increase compensation for veterans right now.
Let's see what was involved in this so-called vote against veterans on the grounds that
I didn't support a bonus or a pension for Spanish and more American war veterans.
In 1940 a bill was passed to give a certain compensation to some volunteers who remain
in the Philippines after Spanish-American war.
This bill was vetoed by the President of the United States.
The President vetoed the bill on this grounds, quote, President Roosevelt.
Congress has here before recognized the service of these officers and men by the award of
a special medal and there was also an allowance by the act of Congress approved January 1899,
a two months extra pay to all volunteers who served honestly and faithfully.
Approval of this bill was resolved in the payment of a gratuited to each of the officers
and men concerned and an amount exceeding his pay for a full year.
And that this would set a bad precedent that they'd already been paid, they'd been given
an apple compensation.
This involved some eight or ten thousand-volunt men who remained in the Philippines.
Well, that veto message was supported by Mr. John Rankin, Congressman John Rankin,
who was the chairman of the Veterans Committee on the House of Representatives and who was
one of the greatest friends the veterans ever had in the House of Representatives.
Let's see who else round in Tennessee voted to sustain the President's veto.
It was a ringing veto.
Nobody took any real exception to it.
It would have meant to not a precedent that could not have been followed as regards other
people.
Boarding to sustain the veto where the Representative Sam Rayburn, the majority leader, the Democratic
leader, Albert Gore, my present colleague in the Senate, Lyndon Johnson, the minority
leader in the Senate now, Leonard Hall and quite a number of other representatives from
that we all know.
Well, that's number one.
Now my opponent says that in 1944 that I voted against a bill to enable our Tennessee
soldiers to vote while they were abroad.
Let me say that no one fought harder for enabling Tennessee veterans or all veterans to vote
when they were in.
I did.
I supported a bill in 1942, which I thought would help, but it didn't help, because it required
the veterans to write back and get absentee ballots and go through the usual procedure.
So that under that bill almost no veterans in Tennessee got to vote.
In 1944 the matter was up again and I supported Congressman Worley's bill, which would have
cut out all the red tape and would have enabled our veterans from Tennessee to vote in elections.
I made a speech on the floor of the House that the Committee bill, which was about the
same as the bill in 1942, had enabled less than 100 veterans in Tennessee to vote in elections.
And I wanted to support something that was worthwhile, which was Congressman Worley's
bill, which practically all of the Democrats supported, which would have really enabled
the veterans to vote.
And I was against this thing, which had allowed only less than 100 Tennessee men out of 250
soldiers to vote in the previous election.
Standing with me in the matter, for instance, where practically all of the Democrats, including
Senator Gore, who was then in the House of Representatives, Congressman Priest, Congressman
Jerry Cooper, Congressman Cliff Davis, and others.
Well, the third is that it's claimed that I voted against the Commodity Credit Corporation
back in 1943.
The issue there was that during this time of war the Republicans and certain others,
certain conservative Democrats had gotten up a bill, which would have been inflationary.
Now, the press had a plan to give certain incentive payments to farmers for increasing
production, and at the same time, try to hold down the high cost of living so that prices
wouldn't go so high.
That was the Democratic position.
I voted for that.
I voted against the amendment to the Commodity Credit Corporation, or when it was written
into the bill, which would have meant high inflation and would have been against the
President's program.
Well, voting with me in this matter was the Mr. John McCormick, the Democratic leader,
and I say practically all of the Democrats.
Here's Congressman Percy Priest and Lyndon Johnson, Mike Monroe and many, many other
stalwart leaders in the Democratic Party.
I have never voted against the interests of the farmers in this nation, and I think they
know that President Roosevelt was their friend.
Well, let's take another thing that's come up.
I've heard many times that I sponsored a so-called organization, Wendell Peece, which was
applied by the Attorney General, to be subversive.
And I've been made over and over again in the face of information, which my opponent,
of course, has, in which he knows that that is simply not true.
The facts were that in the early part of 1946, a young Marine Lieutenant Captain came
to my office in his uniform, saying that the service men felt they ought to be having
some conferences in connection with the United Nations and other matters, try to see if
they couldn't win the peace.
If they had at least the auditorium in the National Press Club, if they had invited the
Secretary of State, I think, Mr. Stinneus at that time, other distinguished Americans
down to speak, and they were getting up a list of sponsors.
I told this Captain Lackester that this sounded good, that, of course, everybody ought to
discuss problems of NATO and United Nations, and we were all for winning the peace, and
I thought service men particularly were interested.
But that everything he had, that what he told me was merely prospective to get back in touch
with me, and if it worked out that way, I would certainly be interested in becoming a
sponsor, but that I wouldn't be interested until I saw exactly what he had worked out.
I never heard from him again until the day before the conference was to take place, I read
in the paper about the conference going to be in some unsavory characters, and some other
people who I didn't know coming down to speak at this conference.
Immediately issued a statement to the press, and I have the United Press ticker here, which
I could show whereby here it is, the United Press ticker, that this man was supposed to
get back in touch with me, that I was not a sponsor, that the use of my name was unauthorized,
and that I was asking that it be immediately withdrawn.
That was also carried in a number of editorials, and even my Chattanooga News Free Press said
that there wasn't anything to this charge.
Then I wrote a letter, which was sent special delivery to Captain Lancaster, a copy of which
I have here, April 5, 1946, and which I said, when you are one of your representatives,
talk with me about being one of the sponsors of the Wendell Peace Meeting to be held in
Washington.
I asked you to get in touch with me again about the matter after you had perfected your
organization and worked up your program for the meeting.
I have not heard from you since that time.
I would appreciate it therefore if you would withdraw my name as a sponsor.
This was brought out, I brought this out myself, when I started to run for the Senate back
in June 1948.
Everybody recognized that that was in fact, of course, the man, one of my opponents,
I know who is these are the facts now.
But in an effort to try to link me up with something that doesn't sound good, he still
brings it out.
This was in April when the Peace Thing was declared subversive by the Attorney General
along about nine months later.
The use of my name was never authorized.
This fellow did a number of other congressmen and senators the same way, and they all repudiated
him just as I did.
Well, let's get on to the next one.
The said very often that by one of my opponents that I always voted against the Un-American
Activities Committee while in the House of Representatives.
Well I voted far the Un-American Activities Committee when I thought it was doing a good
job.
I voted against it when I thought it wasn't.
As matter of fact, during the ten years I was in the House of Representatives.
They were about forty votes affecting the Un-American Activities Committee.
I voted against the Committee about only five out of about forty times.
Always supported it when I thought it was doing well.
I remember on at least two occasions when we were trying to reorganize the procedures
and the committees and the House of Representatives and in Congress.
You all remember the Reorganization Act of 1946.
We were trying to cut down the great number of committees and put the functions and permanent
committees.
I voted to have a to prevent this from becoming a permanent committee and to have it part
of the Judiciary Committee feeling that it could do better work at that time.
That was part of the Reorganization Act and in that I was supported by the majority leader
and by and that was the Democratic position.
Then on another occasion when Representative Pornail Thomas of New Jersey was chairman of
the Un-American Activities Committee.
It was commonly known around Washington that he is petting the payroll of this committee
for which he was later convicted and went to the Penitentiary.
On those occasions when in addition to the usual appropriation for the committee when he
asked for additional funds under those circumstances I voted against it.
I have always supported every good effort to try to root out the Communists in government.
I have supported the government investigating committee in the United States Senate.
I have always backed up the FBI and the appropriations and have tried to give it the authority to
deal with Communists in government and other places.
I think Mr. J. Edgar Hoover knows better how to handle these matters than anybody else.
But when these committees have been have done a good job I have always supported them.
And I have cast many many more votes for the Un-American Activities Committee than I did
against it.
Then there is another matter that's always brought up by political demagogues in every state.
That is they try to smear someone by saying that they voted with Mark Antonio who was a somewhat radical
and leftist member of Congress from New York City.
That's always an effort to show any vote with Mark Antonio as being something to be used
against the fellow who cast it.
Well I have the figures here.
If you'll compare any Congress I served in the House of Representatives for about eight years
with Mr. Mark Antonio.
He had his obligation and I had my obligation.
Naturally we voted alike many many times.
Naturally he voted the same as Senator Taft did many many times.
Just because Mr. Mark Antonio voted for the TVA or for housing or for agriculture or for social security
or for the resource development of this nation certainly wouldn't justify me
and voting against the interests of the people in my state just in order to vote against Mark Antonio.
Here are the figures.
During this time, Keith Oliver with Mark Antonio is 73-1-10%
Mark Antonio with a Democratic majority leader 71-5-10%
Congressman or Keith Oliver, the majority leader Mr. Rayburn and Mark Antonio voted alike 61%.
Compare that Mr. Mark Antonio's voting with most any progressive Democrat in the House of Representatives
or compare it with Senator Taft and you'll see that they follow along about the same lands.
That's just an old method of always brought out in every campaign to try to smear by
ensignuation and innuendo.
Well let's go on to some other votes and other matters that are being talked of by my opponent.
Let's take for instance in the United States Senate here's a charge that's been made that I have voted against
voted in favor of letting foreign nations try American soldiers.
I never was an unfair this representation than that.
This happened in the United States Senate and it involved a treaty between all NATO nations.
This treaty had been signed by this nation under the auspices of the President of the United States
and the Secretary of State and by the other NATO nations and it applied to everybody alike.
I am the absence of treaties whenever any soldier from a foreign country here gets out and commits a civilian offense he's tried by a civilian court.
The same is applicable to our men in foreign lands.
The President and the Secretary of State felt that this treaty which was up for confirmation gave our servicemen some protections which they did not otherwise have.
It gave them protection of interpreters of a benefit of counsel also of an appeal to NATO to see that no injustice was done.
It did not have those in the absence of this treaty and I'm willing to rely upon the President of the United States.
The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Army in protecting the rights of our people in the connection with this.
This gave them additional rights they didn't have.
Practically all of the Democrats voted for the confirmation of this treaty including Mao and good colleague, Senator Gore, Senator Sparkman, Senator Hill, Senator Fulbright, Senator McLellan.
I think these surrounding senators in all of our states.
Let's go on to some of the other problems that are being talked about.
Here's the allegation that I endorse a magazine, a so-called Communist magazine called Infect.
I want to tell you the exact facts about this matter.
I had seen this magazine. It looked like a pretty good magazine around.
I think I came out over two weeks or once a month.
I was written a letter back in March 10th, 1950 by Mr. SELDES, the editor, asking if I wouldn't write them a little note,
congratulating them upon ten years of journalism.
I had no information that there was anything wrong with Infect.
I wrote a general letter saying that congratulates you on the first decade of your publication.
That was in March 1950.
After shortly after it was brought to my attention that Infect had been listed as having some communist connections
not by the Attorney General of the United States but by the Un-American Activities Committee of the House.
On June 26th, just about a month after I had written the first letter or two months afterwards,
I wrote Mr. SELDES, the editor of another letter saying that since writing you the said letter,
I have had occasion to obtain from the files of the Committee of Un-American Activities information and allegations concerning you and your publication.
Had I known these things before, I would not have complied with your request.
Therefore, I shall appreciate you making no further use of my letter of March 10th, 1950,
and request that you give the secondary viewpoint equal prominence in your publication.
That was the fact about that.
Now let's see what are some of the other charges that have been made.
Oh yes, here's a charge that's been made about my service record or by registration under the selective service.
I think that I should make some explanation about that.
Then some inferences that I was a conscientious objector that I or that I had pled constitutional immunity or something of that sort.
Facts are that on December 7th, 1941, when we deployed war, I immediately wrote the President of the United States President Roosevelt,
Secretary of War Stimpson, Secretary of the Navy, Knox,
told them that I had voted for war that I wanted to volunteer in my services in any capacity where I could best serve my nation during time of war.
They wrote back that they were asking members of Congress to stay on their position on their jobs in Congress.
The President of the United States publicly asked members of Congress to stay here,
but I followed the recommendation of the President of the United States.
On my selective service, I wrote down at the bottom that I claimed no exemption whatsoever by virtue of my position in government as a member of Congress or by virtue of my family.
At that time, I had a wife and our youngest daughter had been born.
So I did not claim any exemption.
I followed the suggestion and the wishes of the President of the United States and I did my best.
It's very difficult to run a campaign when you're confronted with just plain, outright, malicious misrepresentations.
Let me give you two examples of that kind of thing, or about three examples.
First, one of my opponents and his talker found out at Memphis gave an article from a Negro newspaper.
But I don't remember the article, but from reading it over, I'm sure that I said what was in the article.
This article was in explanation of why I would not be for a voluntary, for a compulsory FEPC.
I pointed out that I thought we ought to try to decrease, eliminate discriminations between people, give everybody more opportunities.
We had to have a program of education and persuasion.
I was pointing out that you couldn't do things of that sort by coercion.
Well, a strange thing was that just out of thin air, one of my opponents wrote into this article,
I said that it stated that Senator Keith Oliver said that there would be no more segregation.
One, it wasn't even talking about segregation.
He just pulled a sentence out of the clear air and put it into something in which it had no context,
whatsoever. Let's look at another one like that.
I have one of my opponents when reading over a campaign contributions, my 1948 campaign,
just injected out of a thin air in 1950, Donald Hiss, the brother of Alger Hiss, $10,000.
Well, that's of course an absolute falsehood.
I didn't even know Alger Hiss. I didn't know he had a brother.
Neither one of them have ever given me as much as a post-it stamp.
I've never seen any of what either one of them.
And when Donald Hiss was approached by a newspaper man about it, he just
was left, said there was nothing to it.
Well, that was just a malicious effort without any foundation whatsoever to try to
associate me in some way with Alger Hiss.
And I don't think the American people particularly like that kind of business.
Well, one of my opponents even goes so far that he tries to bring one's wife into
controversy, which I do very bitterly resent.
And Knoxville over a talkathon, he stated that I told some people that I wouldn't investigate
the numbers, racket, and Knoxville because a wife or one of the people alleged to be involved
had given my wife a mean quote. Well, of course, my wife, for Nancy, never had a mean quote and
she's got a bill of sale for the coach she has and I, for which she never will have a mean quote.
But well, my one of my opponents was still there.
And after David was issued by the one of the people involved,
the telegram came from person he was supposed to told him this saying that there was
absolutely nothing to it. That did had no foundation whatsoever.
But then strangely enough, about 10 days later, after knowing that what he said was untrue,
if you didn't know it in the first place. And the Memphis talkathon he repeated exactly the
same thing over and over again. Well, you know, my friend Edmund Orgel, now is that the,
let's see if we have any other, yes, I do want to say just one other thing.
It's been a very painstaking effort, probably originating from Bob Vin,
who was connected with Mickey McBride, the owner of the mob liar service,
and who is the paid publicist and talkathon man for one of my opponents,
to smear and to discredit the work of the Senate crime investigating committee.
Well, I'm always, I'm very proud of the work that our committee did.
Anybody wants any evidence of the very close connection of Mr. Vin, with Robert Vin,
with Mr. Mickey McBride, here's a letter from the public records of the Federal Communications
Commission setting up the contract in the agreement back in 1948 between the owner of the mob
liar service and his business partner, Mr. Robert C. Vin. I have that for inspection.
I'm very proud of the work of our Senate crime investigating committee, asking anybody on any of
the big cities where we held hearings in the place of all kinds of retaliation,
although they don't think that we did a good job. They cleaned up, they broke up the gangs
in many, many cities, and I'm proud of the fact that we broke up this nationwide wire service,
which was the backbone of organized crime in the United States, which was owned by the McBride,
with whom Mr. Vin, who is now probably inspiring a great many of these misrepresentations,
was a working partner and a part owner of WMEI, the radio station of the McBride's and Miami,
which always dispatched the work of our committee and of the Miami crime committee.
But I would be willing to take the word of Mr. J. Edgar Hoover as to the work of our Senate
crime investigating committee. Mr. Hoover testifying on March 26, 1951, before our committee,
said Mr. Chairman and General of the Committee of the Chairman, the members of this special committee
of the United States can take pride in its accomplishments during the past few months. You have
developed facts which brought out into the open and pigments between the underworld and the upper
world and unholy alliance between the criminal element and official to which established a
shocking disregard for law and order. He went on to talk about the work of the committee,
he said in this paragraph, may also express the hope that this committee under its particularly
very able chairman will continue its unbiased, non-political exposure of the criminal element,
which has polluted all too many communities of our nation. And if anyone would like the full
text of Mr. Hoover's statement, I will of course be glad to finish it. But our friends, the unusual
thing about this is that most all of these charges were back prior to 1948. They had been
thrashed out in congressional campaigns when I was running for the House of Representatives.
They were thrashed out in the campaign of 1948 practically every one of them.
I'd always thought that when you ran a campaign and these and matters came up as issues,
if you won that campaign then you usually start out from there. But not so in this campaign,
this representations and false statements have been made going back to 1939 when I first went to
the House of Representatives. And I felt that since some people would not remember, new people have
come into Tennessee, a new voter since 1948 and since 1940 when I ran for the second time for
the House of Representatives that I should make these explanations. And the interesting thing is that
all of these things happened back of 1948 and one of my opponents was very, very familiar with
the campaign of 1948. He knew all about it, he knew that the charges were made and the charges
were answered, all of these things I've talked with you about today. And then November 3rd, 1948,
I received a letter from one of my opponents saying congratulations, we are proud of you and proud
for you. And then went on to tell what a great record I had made and how much he was going to enjoy
serving in the House of Representatives with me. After an Edmund Orgle and talking down at Memphis
said, what is it that makes a neighbor a false witness against his neighbor? I was already 1948
when he once my office and running for it, everything I did prior to 1948 was no good and
against the best interest of the people of Tennessee. Thank you very, very much.